---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-18T13:05:50.786Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-18T13:03:25.705Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-18-a02f74bc-1795-4df0-8bc2-e477ef7b4c8f.md
published: true
url: a02f74bc-1795-4df0-8bc2-e477ef7b4c8f/index.html
_type: Article

---
#### To bacteria the human mouth is a whole world; the tongue and gums their own continents and each tooth a different nation. While small parts of these bacterial cities have been looked at before, researchers Jessica Mark Welch and Gary Borisy, from Marine Biological Laboratory and the Forsyth Institute in Massachusetts, respectively, have now mapped the entire planet in technicolour.  

The researchers collected dental plaque from 22 healthy mouths for microscopic consideration. The scrapings were coated with probe molecules in a range of colours, each set of probes able to single out a group of bacteria. In total they were able to colour 96 per cent of the present bacteria.

Though others have worked in this space, Welch and Borisy have gone beyond previous endeavours to identify this bacteria, using a total of 15 probes in comparison to the usual one or two. Once able to perfect their technique, by equalising the intensity at which the probes glowed the bacteria shone from their map, the team could view a rainbow community of bacteria like no one has before.

The team were pleased to discover that the bacteria were not randomly dispersed, but organised. The mapped bacteria formed what the team have called 'hedgehog'-like shapes---central magenta strands of_Corynebacterium_surrounded by a crown of _Streptococcus_.

Source: http://bitemagazine.com.au/a-whole-new-world-of-bacteria/