---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-18T12:57:06.704Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-18T12:56:17.964Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-18-44bc6954-f1c2-4576-a8a0-635819eb9175.md
published: true
url: 44bc6954-f1c2-4576-a8a0-635819eb9175/index.html
_type: Article

---
#### A powerful new report highlighting the vital connection between good oral health and broader physical, mental and emotional wellbeing has practical implications.

"There is quite a lot of literature coming out about how oral diseases relate to systemic diseases," reports Dr Susan Cartwright. "The associations between heart disease, diabetes and so on have highlighted these sorts of issues. Then there is the fact that some lifestyle diseases are connected to sugar, and of course tooth decay is connected to sugar. There are common risk factors for some systemic diseases that also apply to oral disease."

#### Perception meets realityThe report details that sugar consumption is on a steady rise globally. The World Health Organization \[WHO\] has issued recommendations on sugar consumption to reduce the risk of non-communicable diseases in adults and children, with a specific focus on tooth decay and obesity. Thanks to tooth decay, WHO says, dental care costs between five and 10 per cent of the health budget in industrialised countries. "Despite the fact this is largely preventable," the paper says, "tooth decay is the most common chronic disease of childhood. Worldwide, 60 to 90 per cent of school children have cavities."